


%!target: md
%!options: --outfile README.md 


%-!target: wiki
%-!options: --outfile README.wiki 

%-!target: html
%-!options: --outfile README.html 

%% markdown support
%!preproc: '^# (.*?)$' '= \1 ='
%!preproc: '^## (.*?)$' '== \1 =='
%!preproc: '^### (.*?)$' '=== \1 ==='
%!preproc: '^#### (.*?)$' '==== \1 ===='
%!preproc: '^##### (.*?)$' '===== \1 ====='
%!preproc: '^\* (.*?)$' '- \1'
%!preproc: '^(\d+)\. (.*?)$' '+ \2'
%!preproc: '\[(.*?)\]\(\http://([^ ].*?)\)' '[\1 http://\2]'
%!preproc: '^>'  '\t'
%!postvoodoo: '(.*?)\n=[=*]{2,}='  '<h1>\1</h1>'
%!preproc: '-[-*]{18,}-'  'T2TBAR'
%!preproc: '-[-*]{2,}'  'MDUNDERLINE'
%!postproc: 'MDUNDERLINE'  '------'
%!postproc: 'T2TBAR'  '<hr/>'
%!postvoodoo: '(.*?)\n-[-*]{2,}-'  '<h2>\1</h2>'




= What is Txt2tags? =



== You may have heard about Txt2tags, if you have it's a good thing ==


**Txt2tags means that your content is being created correctly.. by professionals.**


In the past you may have heard of [WYSIWYG http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG] (what you see is what you get) and [HTML http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML] formatting. Think of Txt2tags like a simplified WYSIWYG or HTML ... simplified in the best way.

When designers and developers approach a project, they build [styles http://www.w3schools.com/css/] into the project. Those styles dictate how basic elements, like headers and links, will appear. The styles are applied throughout the entire project.

In the past, a WYSIWYG or HTML editing tool had too much control. Someone could unknowingly add a new style to the design (like red italic bold headers) without meaning to. More often than not, it was a purposeful addition, but that leads to a //race to the bottom//, so style treatment became larger, bolder, and brighter. This makes designers sad :( because their carefully crafted theme is tossed by the wayside, like stuff... old stuff.

Bottom line, people who edit content should focus on the words and the designer should make them pretty. Txt2tags does an excellent job at drawing a line in the sand, equipping us to all play nice together. The neat part is that when a designer pushes a new style to your website, it is consistently reflected across the whole chalupa, so they keep the design fresh and stay on top of browser caveats and features. 

Txt2tags is widely accepted by [developers and editors https://duckduckgo.com/?q=love+txt2tags], so it's the best choice for implementing best practice. Nearly every popular content management solution supports Txt2tags, if not out-of-the-box, then with an easy-to-install extension.



== Txt2tags tools for Writers ==

**Anyone who works with content should be using one of the following tools...**

//Note: Most things about Txt2tags are free.//


==== Editors ====

- Any text editor can do the job. Some of them have syntax highlight or sections shortcuts, such as [Geany http://geany.org/], [Kate http://kate-editor.org/] or [Scite http://www.scintilla.org/SciTEDownload.html]. Advanced users might prefer using [Vim http://www.vim.org/] which has the best txt2tags support.

//Find something that works better for you? No problem. Your .t2t files are small and portable, and aren't locked away inside a proprietary format or hidden away inside an arcane XML file. They're right there in a folder you own and control, ready to be used somewhere else if you need them.//


==== Online Tools ====


 - [PmWiki http://wiki.txt2tags.org/index.php/Main/Txt2tagsAndPmWiki]  
 - [Dokuwiki http://www.dokuwiki.org/plugin:txt2tags]
 - [LionWiki http://wiki.txt2tags.org/demos/lionwiki-t2t/]
 - to be continued... (wordpress, drupal etc.)



==== Other ====


- TODO



== How do I write this Txt2tags stuff? ==



When developers talk about how to write something, they call it syntax.

To that end, here are related syntax documents sorted by ease of use.


- [Txt2tags syntax http://txt2tags.org/markup.html] - Formatting guide
- [Txt2tags user guide http://txt2tags.org/userguide/] - The original guide by the author
- [Wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Txt2tags] - History and formatting guide




== About ==



[Txt2tags http://www.txt2tags.org/] is made by [Aurelio Jargas http://aurelio.net/], and [a team of several people http://www.txt2tags.org/team/]. 

Txt2tags is a document generator and a lightweight markup.

It reads a text file with minimal markup such as **bold** and //italic//. Its python implementation can convert to several formats such as html, docbook, LaTeX, RTF, Man page, Creole, Wikipedia / MediaWiki, PmWiki, DokuWiki, MoinMoin, AsciiDoc...

It is very extensible and customisable, by using regex and preprocessors.

Its php implementation targets only HTML but you can use it with several CMS, Blog and wiki engines: Wordpress, Drupal, Dotclear, Dokuwiki, LionWiki... 



== I still don't understand ==



Txt2tags can be written in a basic text editor (don't use Word) like Notepad on Windows, TextEdit on Mac OS X or Gedit on Linux-based distributions. You can write or copy and paste, but it's an easy way to write text that can quickly be turned into HTML. The web is written in HTML, so think of it like quick-start web developing for content editors. When you write in Txt2tags, you save the document with the file extension ``.t2t``. More often than not, you'll never need to save a Txt2tags document, because you'll be using online tools.



== Around the web ==



- TODO






== Take action! ==


Demand that your projects be built with Txt2tags.


========================


Markdown
========

Test
------



## Markdown support 

Hey markdown users, we have heard you!

----------------------

You can reuse some of your markdown habits within txt2tags. In fact you 
can almost reuse all of the markdown syntax:

* Unordered lists in txt2tags begins with -, not *. But we can set-up 
a ``preprocessor`` so it can handle the * in addition.
* Ordered lists in txt2tags begins with +, not 1. But again, we can
change this. Look at this (look at the source in fact...):
1. Here is a list
2. Another
3. Etc.

* Markdown links are supported as well. Here is a link to the [txt2tags website](http://www.txt2tags.org). Unfortunately, we can't use reference links in this little hack to support most of the markdown syntax. 


> quotes are supported too.

Of course, you can't use the single * or _ for emphasis and the double ones for strong like for markdown: technically it's possible, but in txt2tags we use double symbles, ``**, //, -- and __`` for respectively **bold**, //italic//, --strike-- and __underline__. The **//bold italic//** style is also supported as a combination. We also use a double ` for ``code``.









--------------------

== Info ==

- This page was made with [Txt2tags http://txt2tags.org] 

- Feel free to fork this page and edit, let's [make it better https://github.com/farvardin/whatistxt2tags/]. 

- This page is based on some reasonings made for markdown, another tool similar to txt2tags (but less powerful and expressive): 
 - https://github.com/kirkstrobeck/whatismarkdown/

% - http://calepin.co/

